Oh, hello, there!
Didn't see you
creeping up
behind me.
Welcome. Come on,
come in here
and listen
to this wonderful tale of woe.
Not woe as in,
"Ah, bummer, man!"
But woe as in,
"Whoa! That's amazing!
"I can't believe
that pretty much
actually happened!
"With a couple
of embellishments
"along the way."
Our tale is a tale
of two islands.
One is
a teeny-weeny
beautiful,
little tropical island
in the Pacific Ocean
called American Samoa.
Home to a wonderful people,
who are deeply religious,
hardworking
and deeply religious.
But the other island,
that was a man.
The Palagi white man!
And just like
any incredible story,
our tale begins
with utter humiliation.
- Well, here they come.
- American Samoa.
A bit of smiling going on,
but some apprehension as well.
Well, that's the first one.
Goal! It's three.
They scored again.
Five for the Socceroos.
Goodness me. Humiliation.
Boys against men.
Oh dear, oh dear.
Hard to keep count.
It's getting embarrassing.
Goal. Goal. Goal.
Just too easy. Goal.
Thirty-one.
American Samoa
on the wrong end
of the biggest
World Cup hammering ever.
And 10 years later,
they were just as bad.
In fact, I think they had
actually gotten worse.
Come on!
American Samoa!
- Samoa!
You guys suck!
Oh, we're going to lose.
- Okay, we can do it.
- Come on.
We're going already!
- What are you doing?
- Goal!
Oh, my gloves
weren't even on yet.
Pisa, put your gloves on.
I'm not even ready!
Come on!
Help, help, help!
Goal!
Move out.
That was
a terrible first half.
And now I'm forced
to give you a growling.
Are you ready
for the growling?
Hmm?
Yes.
Okay,
you asked for it.
Get ready.
You were bad.
You are bad.
That was bad.
Where's the heart?
Where's the spirit?
You have to play
with heart and spirit.
You're bad. Bad!
Okay, Ace,
I'll take over from here.
Yeah, I think
that's best,
yeah.
Okay, gentlemen,
listen up.
In case you don't know me,
I'm Tavita Taumua.
I'm the President
of the Football Federation
of American Samoa.
But I think you all
do know me.
Hi, son.
Hey, Dad.
I'm here
to beg something
from you
for the second half.
I know we've never ever
scored a goal, ever!
But we have to
because I've made a bet
with the heads
of the football federations
from the other islands
that we could.
And if we don't,
they're going to draw
a lady boobs on my face.
That's some
pretty powerful motivation.
Both teams,
please return to the field.
Okay! 45 minutes left!
Let's go,
American Samoa!
One heart!
Hey, guys, heads up.
Not all of the goals went in.
So, that's heart and spirit.
Right, Tavita?
Ace, you're a lovely guy,
but you're a terrible coach.
You're sacked.
Okay, cool.
That seems fair.
Yeah, take a look.
Count the boobs.
Count them.
Individual boobs
or pairs?
I'll save you the trouble.
There's 11 pairs.
Eleven pairs.
They drew these
with permanent marker.
You know
what permanent means?
Forever!
Aren't you guys sick
of losing?
We haven't scored one goal
in the history
of our country trying
to have a soccer team.
Doesn't that
strike you as odd?
Mark my words,
things are going
to change.
I'm going to get us
a new coach.
Huh?
New coach.
Where am I going
to find a new coach?
You have to look
off island.
No, that's treason.
Treason is sending
that poor team
to play games they have
no hope of winning.
You have to think
outside the box.
Hmm, well,
sometimes the box
is too small
to think inside of.
Maybe I will do it.
I've already done it.
I've rung the American
Football Federation
to put an ad up
for the job.
Dad, we don't need
some Palagi with
his white savior complex
to come teach us
how to play soccer.
Daru!
But there's so many
other great coaches
on the island.
Like who?
Like Ace.
I sacked him.
He's no good
with pressure.
He hates pressure.
You hate pressure,
don't you, Ace?
Yeah, that's true.
I hate it.
There's only four weeks
to the World Cup
qualifier, Dad.
We should
just get a coach
from the island.
Don't make me
hit you with this sandal.
We are getting
a real coach.
That's it!
And don't think
I haven't noticed
those big boobs
on your face.
Whose boobs are those?
I don't know,
they're drawings.
Drawings of boobs
are a gateway
to the real thing.
Be careful,
my mister.
Look,
I know this season
didn't go as planned.
It's known
as the beautiful game,
but let's face it,
it's a complicated game, guys.
Football, soccer,
as you like to call it,
is like life. You know?
You're riding high in April
and shot down in May.
Um, next season, I think,
we have a real shot.
As long as you, uh,
trust me and allow me
to play the system
that I like to play.
Uh, I'm sorry,
uh, Thomas,
did nobody tell you?
You're...
You're fired.
Did honestly
nobody tell you?
- Rhys, did you not...
- Yeah, of course, I...
I'm fired?
Are you joking?
Are you kidding me?
Obviously,
you're in shock,
which is understandable.
And it is only natural
that you go through
the five stages
of grief,
which Rhys, I think,
you have a...
Yes. Thank you, Alex.
We'll just quickly run this...
Thank you, Chris.
There we go. Yep,
too far. Release it.
Now, to...
You've lost it.
Settle it there.
Just, yep,
there we go.
Thanks, Chris.
Spin it round.
No, you got
to flip it.
Flip the...
Yep, there we go.
And spin it round.
Stage one, denial.
This is not happening.
There it is. That's it,
that's classic denial.
Good news is,
you got two options. Rhys?
Option one, that's where
you're currently at.
- Or...
- Chris?
Pacific Ocean?
Uh, well, yes. Uh, but, no.
Specifically, American Samoa.
American Samoa?
Are you serious?
Is this a joke?
Gail, do you know
about this?
Yes, it was my idea.
Can't believe
you'd do this to me!
I deserve some respect.
Oh, boy.
I'm the only one
in this room
that knows anything
about this game.
Stage two. Anger.
That anger
is real.
Was he this angry
when you were married?
He was calmer before.
Thomas, you need to stop
thinking about this
as some kind of punishment.
This could be
a chance to heal.
Maybe find
a new direction.
Oh, Gail!
God, I love that, Gail.
That is so good.
Excellent.
I played this game
at the top level.
This isn't fair.
Fair?
You want to know
about fair?
Oh, here we go.
Let me tell you
a story, buddy.
When I was a kid,
I had this dog.
And I loved this dog.
But then,
he got older.
And I guess he had
some anger issues.
Wasn't the same dog.
My dad said that we needed
to put the dog down.
So, we take him outside,
and this dog,
he is whimpering.
We're taking him out.
"Oh, no,
this isn't fair.
"Remember how good
I was in the past?"
And my dad made me
take that dog outside
and drown him
in the pond.
I'm the dog
in this story?
No, of course not.
I'm just telling you
the story
about my dog
when I was growing up.
And the fact that my dad
was a bit of an asshole.
Okay, look.
I can change.
I'm flexible, guys.
Let's not make
any rash decisions here.
Really,
really good stuff, Thomas.
You are smoking
through these.
- There's only two left.
- Oh, that's great.
'Cause I got to...
Wow.
Chris?
We only got
one left.
And it's
my favorite one
of all.
Mr. Rongen? Mr. Rongen,
hello, Mr. Rongen.
Welcome to American Samoa.
What is this shit?
No naughty words,
pretty please.
This is
Who's On The Plane?
American Samoa's
top-rated show.
We interview people
who travel to the island
on the plane.
Well, I guess what everyone
at home wants to know is
why have you come
halfway across the world
to coach
the worst soccer team
in the world?
I have a very particular
set of skills.
Skills I've acquired
over a very long career.
Skills that make me
a nightmare
for people like you.
I've come here to impasse
my knowledge
and unique insight
into the beautiful game
and turn this team around.
I'm not God,
but I may as well be.
Because I perform
more miracles than him.
Okay, well,
one thing's for sure.
The new coach
is very friendly
and outgoing.
We'll see you next time
for another edition
of Who's On The Plane?
Mr. Thomas Rongen!
It's very nice
to meet you.
I am Tavita,
I'm the President
of the Football Federation
of American Samoa.
And also the cameraman
for Who's On The Plane?
It's a small island.
We all have lots of jobs.
Now, as an honored guest,
we have a very
special surprise
waiting outside.
Okay?
So, Gus will look
after you.
Yeah, you'll love this.
This is so exciting!
Guys! Guys!
Dad, why
are we here?
It's all part of
my exciting
master surprise plan.
Gentlemen, I am proud
to officially announce
our new official
national coach
of the American Samoa
soccer team.
He's played with some of
the top players
in the world.
Oh.
And, he's originally
from Europe.
Oh.
So, let's give him a warm
American Samoan welcome!
Um, okay, guys, hey...
Your chariot awaits.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, great stuff, guys.
I think he feels
really welcome.
We'll see you
at training.
Hey. Dad,
how many offshore people
applied for the job?
Oh, the response
was incredible!
Yeah? How many
people responded?
Well,
there was him.
Yeah, it was just him.
But the fact
that he responded,
absolutely incredible.
I really think things
are gonna turn around.
You know, son?
It's like
in The Matrix.
I think this man
is the Neo.
Welcome
to American Samoa.
With a population
of 57,534 people,
American Samoa is
a United States territory
like Puerto Rico, but much
smaller and further away.
The two main exports
are NFL players and tuna.
It should not be confused
with the independent nation
of Samoa
with their cocky,
stuck-up people
always bragging about
their 24-hour McDonald's.
Even though
we are both Samoan...
Hey.
...there are two Samoas.
Can you drive faster?
Oh, I would never break
the speed limit.
It's 20 miles per hour
across the whole island.
Interesting fact.
The bird
on the flag
of American Samoa...
Welcome to your
new accommodation.
Oh, that's your car,
so you can move
around the island
at will.
Mmm-hmm.
And now,
the piece de residence.
Your castle awaits.
Your landlord
is Sione.
He lives in the house
next door.
And he is available
seven-twenty-four
to address
your every need.
Seven-twenty-four?
Seven days out
of every twenty-four.
Well, I'll let you
get settled in.
And I will leave this
Welcome to American Samoa
video here
for you to peruse
at your leisure.
The qualifiers are
only four weeks away,
Mr. Rongen.
All I want from our team
is just one goal.
One goal.
Hello?
Hello? Can I use
the phone?
Rongen won the MLS
Coach of the Year award
and coached the US men's
national team.
But his career
went mysteriously
off the rails two years ago.
And I think the question
we're all wondering is...
Why have you come halfway
across the world
to coach
the worst soccer team
in the world?
Coach Rongen has
a colorful reputation.
What, what, what, what?
But the team is hopeful
he can save them
from another
international humiliation.
We caught up with him
as he got off the plane.
Welcome to American Samoa.
What is
this ?
Oh, you're from TV.
Famous guy.
Welcome to
the convenience store.
I see you found
our conveniently
located
libation station.
And conveniently,
we're the local
movie rental place.
And the convenient
dreamcatcher outlet.
You guys have
a public phone
that I could use?
Hello?
Excuse me?
What the...
Now, we gonna do
the Hollywood.
Ah, and that's where
you grab your leg.
Ah, and it's really sore,
and you fall down. Hollywood.
Arnold!
Get up! Up, up, up!
Oh, nice. Now, we're gonna
practice pointing and blaming
where you point to someone
and just blame them.
Wait, wait, wait.
Ah. Mr. Rongen.
Nice, little buddy. Okay.
Go into the shop,
get me that bottle
we talked about.
Off you go.
Thanks, little buddy.
Run!
Well, gentlemen.
I've been watching you.
And it's safe to say,
you're useless.
You have zero talent, skill
or understanding of the game.
That is why we're gonna work
on two very simple things.
Fitness and discipline.
Cacio and the pepe.
Cheese and pepper.
Simple dish
but when made well,
exquisite.
So, this is what
we're gonna do.
We're gonna get into two lines
and we're gonna do sprints.
Down to the goal and back.
Two lines!
Suicides!
Cheese and pepper!
Come on, let's go! Go!
Why are we doing this?
Because I want to see
what you're made of.
You're all a bunch
of Daniel-sans.
And I'm Mr. Miyagi.
I want to see how many of you
can make the full 90 minutes.
Let's go! Cacio pepe!
Oh, Jaiyah.
Hi!
Hi, boys.
Hey, hey, guys!
What's going on?
What were we just
talking about? Discipline.
All right. 200 sit-ups
down at the goal.
Go!
Go, go, 200!
Hey, coach,
I'm so sorry
I'm late.
Oh. Ah, ah.
I just came in
from Hawaii.
I'm in middle of, uh,
talking to the squad
right now.
So, uh...
You must be
team masseuse.
Why don't you, uh,
set up in the...
Oh. No, no, no.
I'm not the team masseuse.
I'm one of
the players.
Oh, no, I don't know
where the women's team train,
but it isn't here.
Oh, no, no, no.
Jaiyah's placed
in the team.
This team.
She's a woman.
Well,
not yet.
What the hell's
going on? Ace?
That's Jaiyah.
She's our center forward.
Jaiyah.
Okay. Good one.
Humor. I get it.
Sure, Jaiyah, go ahead.
Join the squad
over there.
Thanks so much, coach.
Joke's on you now.
She's playing.
Very good.
Something not right
about this guy.
Well, he is white.
No. Something else.
Let's keep
our eye on him.
All right, Ace.
Let's see what
they're made of.
Look alive,
bitches!
All right, come on.
We're up.
Wow, a ball!
Mr. Miyagi is really
shaking things up.
Okay, Ace. Run me
through the team.
Who we got?
Okay, uh, that's Smiley.
He's the D'Angelo
of soccer.
Hey, Smiley!
Yeah. Oh!
And that's Daru.
He's known as the Bad Boy
of soccer.
He's always sliding in
and getting carded. Very bad.
Oh, that is Samson.
What? Because of his hair?
No, Samsung.
He's named after the giant
Korean tech company.
His father's name is Sony.
Oh, and there's Jaiyah,
the Cindy Crawford
of soccer.
What's his real name?
Jaiyah.
No, registered name.
Oh, it's Johnny.
But you never want
to call her that.
Yeah.
She's Fa'afafine.
What does that mean?
It's part of our culture.
They're just one of us.
But different.
But you guys
are all cool
with this?
How can I put this?
It's like
imagine a world
without flowers.
Well, Fa'afafine
are our flowers.
Be a pretty dull world
without them.
Hmm? They're beautiful.
And who's that
large body in goal?
Oh, that's Pisa.
He's not really a goalkeeper.
He's a midfielder,
but he found the gloves
when Nicky...
Wait, wait, wait.
Who's that?
That's Jonah.
He's the Knight Rider Car
of soccer.
Bring it in.
Whistle, whistle.
Bring it in, team!
Sit down, sit down.
That was terrible.
You're just pissing around
out there.
You need passion
to play this game.
It's embarrassing.
I've every right to put
my foot up all your asses.
Oh, that's funny
to you?
Well, yeah. I mean,
it's a funny image.
Sorry. Just trying
to have fun.
Football's fun.
I'll tell you
what's not fun.
Watching you prancing
and parading,
fixing your hair
like My Little Pony.
That's not fun.
Armani.
This young gentleman here
is what I'm talking about.
This is passion
personified.
If I had 11 Armani's,
I could conquer the world.
But alas,
I only have the one.
I'll take that.
You know what?
I've had it for today.
I'm going to leave
Armani in charge.
He's going to be
my eyes and my ears.
Anything Armani says, you do.
Armani?
What shall we do today?
Everybody,
shoulder exercise up.
Up, down, up, down.
Double time.
Welcome
to your voice mailbox.
You have 18 saved messages.
First saved message.
Hey, Dad.
I just saw you called.
Where are you?
Seriously. Like,
where in the world
is Thomas Rongen?
Okay, call me back.
Old tin cans,
old tin cans!
That's what
I'm collecting.
People just throw them away.
They wash up on the shore.
They used to be valuable.
Not so much anymore.
Is she talking to me?
You're feeling alone,
because you are alone.
Like these old metal cans.
This isn't happening.
It's a mirage.
Yes, this is happening.
You're just
a skinny white guy,
sitting there
looking out to sea
for answers.
But maybe the answers you seek
are right in front of you.
Everybody deserves
a second chance.
Even tin cans.
Not that
plastic bottle there,
though.
Not that.
Not touching that.
Family is what you make it.
Here I come,
the old tin can lady.
Looking for
my tin cans...
Tin cans.
...that's what I do
- all day. Oh!
- Darling!
Oh, Tavita, you idiot!
Did you speak to him?
Yes, but what was all that
tin can mumbo-jumbo shit
you made me say
and all that "family is what
you make it" crap?
It sounded like
that old lady
from The Matrix.
Nah, he's a Palagi.
White people love
all that spiritual stuff.
Can you imagine the world
without yoga?
There'd be all this
unstretchy white people around
with no ethnic tattoos.
And no white dreadlocks.
Exactly! They need us.
And I need that coach.
Hey, guys!
That's great warming-upping.
- Doing really well.
- Ace.
Oh! Mr. Rongen.
Ace.
Yeah?
You know,
I just had the most
profound conversation.
It was all about tin cans.
Our team, they're like
a bunch of tin cans.
Look at them.
Discarded, crumpled,
sitting in a bunker,
waiting for an apocalypse
that may never come.
But guess what, Ace,
we're gonna give
those cans a purpose.
What's that, boss?
We're going to start
a nuclear war.
Gather around,
tin cans.
Come on,
We're going
to practice free kicks.
Hustle, double time!
Double time,
double time, hustle.
The art of taking
the free kick
is about distraction.
Here we go.
- Whoa, whoa.
- Oh.
And that's how
it's done.
Distraction!
Distraction. Follow my move.
Hey!
A small game called
the Human Hurdle.
And jump! And jump!
Stop.
You go around.
Cheese and pepper,
cheese and pepper!
The object of the game
is to hit the moving target.
Useless.
♪ Baa, baa black sheep
♪ Have you any wool? ♪
Keep the melody,
please.
♪ Yes, sir, yes, sir ♪
Everybody wait.
Stop play.
Jaiyah, any reason
why you're late?
Everybody else seemed
to turn up on time
for training today.
Why don't you run over there
and do some slaloms.
Off you go.
Let's go.
Talk to one another.
Come on! Concentrate.
The object is turning speed.
Hustle, hustle.
Hustle, hustle, bustle.
You know what?
Forget about it.
Hup, hup, hup.
- Guys, head up, head up.
- Get low, get low.
Cheese and pepper!
Get out of
the way here.
Cheese
and pepper!
The object
is to get the ball
in the net.
Concentrate.
Look where
you're shooting it.
What the hell!
Don't look at me,
look at the ball.
Control it, Daru.
What is that? Is that a pass?
One touch. Pass.
One touch.
Pass, pass.
Come on.
Jaiyah, focus.
You're controlling
the back line, let's go!
And how would I say,
"You're all useless.
I'm out of here"?
Way too long.
Forget it.
Trust.
Trust. Trust, okay. Trust.
That's it, don't touch me.
Trust is broken.
All right.
It's getting serious now.
We're going to play
full 90 minutes
with the ball.
Shirts versus bibs.
Three touches only. Go!
Go, go, go!
That's it,
push up, push up.
Pressure,
pressure,
pressure.
A little bit of urgency.
Look at him, he's got all
the space in the world.
Jaiyah! Look alive.
Concentrate.
Focus, Jaiyah.
What are you waiting for?
Pressure, pressure, pressure.
No, no, no!
Squeeze him, Daru.
Stay on your feet, man.
Jaiyah, what are you doing
over there?
Stop playing
with your hair.
What the hell's that?
Come here.
Why are you fixing
your hair?
This isn't some
voguing competition.
This is
international soccer.
Stop that.
Get your shit together.
Johnny, come back here
when I'm talking to you.
My name is not Johnny.
Your registered name
is Johnny.
You'll be playing
under the name Johnny.
And that's what I'm going
to be calling you.
So, get used to it,
Johnny.
Call me Johnny,
again, one more time,
and see what happens.
Johnny.
Oh, Jaiyah,
no, he's a coach.
Naughty, naughty.
Yeah, yeah.
It's okay. I'm all right.
Okay.
Things are getting
pretty intense.
So, it's, uh, time
to take a break, maybe.
Ace, call lunch.
You heard the man.
Have some lunch.
Cooling down.
Especially, if your name
rhymes with fire.
Sixth saved message.
Okay, so,
you don't actually know
how phones work
is the vibe I'm getting.
When it makes a noise,
you answer it.
I mean, I know
you're probably working
with the team right now but
maybe stop yelling at them
for a second and call me back.
I'm around.
Hey, celebrity guy!
Saw you on
Who's On The Plane,
coach.
Soccer coach, you got
the toughest job
on the island.
These guys are
shocking.
- Shocking.
- Ah, coach!
Welcome to
our humble restaurant.
Tavita's Restaurant.
My restaurant.
How many jobs
have you got?
Ah, we all have
a few jobs.
We have to earn
enough money
to keep the team going.
Garcon! Son, Daru.
What?
Please, escort
our esteemed guest
to our exclusive
al fresco table.
Please.
No special treatment.
I'll sit outside.
They look up to you.
They depend on you.
You got to be demanding.
But kind.
Hello.
Sir.
Something to drink?
Whiskey, beer, wine?
Yeah, we got all those.
Which one?
Whiskey, beer, and wine.
Mr. Rongen.
Please accept this appetizer
of raw fish marinated
in coconut cream.
It's a real classic
of the islands.
And it's on the house.
How are things going?
I can honestly say
it's the worst bunch
of players
I've ever come across
in my life.
Oh.
I have very
particular methods.
And unless I get
the support I need,
I just don't think
it's going to work.
We have
our own methods too.
Traditions.
It's like
with that appetizer.
I'm sure that little fish
didn't think that one day
it would be chopped up,
covered in spring onions,
a little bit of tomato,
yellow pepper,
lemon zest
and a dash of chili.
But if you ask
anyone around here,
it's a better fish
because of it.
You may need
to just marinate, too.
See how you feel.
One goal.
Wow. That's really good.
It's really good!
♪ I want to swing♪
Yes, I'm going to need
immediate backup.
I'm engaged
in a car chase.
Wow, really?
Looks like a Palagi guy,
he's driving like a maniac.
He's maybe doing
35, 36 MPHs.
That's fast!
Also, um, my, uh,
my siren's not working.
Oh, jeez!
Okay, stay safe, Rambo.
Oh, and can you get some kava
from Uncle Pese
on the way home?
Uh, copy that.
Yeah, okay,
I love you, Mom.
I love you too, baby.
Okay, love you.
- Shit.
- Yeah,
this is the policeman.
Can you please pull over
to the side? Yes.
You're going to get
out of the car
on the count of three.
Are you ready?
Three.
Thank you.
Okay, you punk rocker.
Oh, hey, it's the guy
from the TV!
That's me. What seems
to be the problem?
Oh, I'll tell you
what the...
Hey, you okay?
Hey. Let it out, big guy.
I got you.
Oh, thank you.
I'm feeling better now.
Now, listen, normally,
I'd lock you up
and throw away the key.
But right now,
I'm just more angry
at my mango juice can.
You stupid can!
Fleetwood Mac!
That's a hell of a right foot
you got there,
Fa'agaloagliga.
Rambo.
Gentlemen,
allow me to present
our newest recruit,
Detective Rambo.
We already kicked him out.
He tried to arrest us all.
You were playing
on private property.
Yeah, that property
is my dad's property.
Well, I don't make up
the rules, okay?
Yeah?
Yeah.
Bravo.
You've just fallen
for the oldest trick
in the book.
Can't you see?
This is exactly what
they want from us.
- Who?
- Them!
The Imperialists.
Divide and conquer.
But we're not going
to let them.
We've worked too long
and hard for this.
You've only been here
a few days.
Rome was built
in a day, man.
I think we're doing
pretty well.
Now, how about this?
As a team, together,
we climb that mountain.
Who's with me?
No.
Coach,
my ankle is hurting me.
I can't hear you.
Who's with me?
No, no, my mom is
expecting me.
Come on, guys!
We're all in this together.
Now, who's going
to climb
that mountain
with me as a team?
Are you with me?
Are you with me,
my team?
Yeah, okay,
then, yeah.
All right!
- Okay, let's go. Yes.
- Go.
- Let's go!
- Yeah.
Now, we're making
some progress.
Wait, wait, wait.
What's going on?
Don't sit down.
We're not there yet.
We haven't even started.
Ace, what's going on?
It's curfew time.
What?
The bell means curfew.
It's time to pray.
The whole island stops.
Same time, every day.
But what am I
supposed to do?
I'm not religious.
Pretend?
Okay.
I'll pray for you.
When did that
ever work? Tavita!
I've got three weeks left
to the qualifiers.
We got a lot
of work to do.
So, tomorrow, I'm going
to start with fitness drills
to see how many of them
can last a full 90 minutes.
Ooh. Ah.
Thomas, ah,
we won't be training
tomorrow.
Why not?
It's Sunday.
So?
The team won't train
on a Sunday.
That would be a sin.
Jesus Christ.
Mr. Rongen,
you are very welcome
to join us on Sunday.
It could be
a nice experience.
You can see
how we worship God.
This is church.
Football is church.
You've got
zero commitment.
We're very committed
to church.
This place
is a carnival
of crap.
Hey, look at this,
look at this.
This bit, right here.
Right here.
Off goes the chair.
- Ooh.
- This guy's been fired
from his
three jobs because
he can't control himself.
I don't know.
He seems okay, now.
Maybe he's different.
I've coached
11-year-olds
better than your players!
Sure.
I mean,
look at this place.
You've got a keyboard
and mouse and no screen!
None of this shit
makes any sense.
You don't even have
a full squad
of players out there.
No wonder
you're the worst team
in the world.
Mr. Rongen,
you have made your point
and now let me
make mine.
Now, we here at FFAS
are honored that you are here.
We want to improve,
we want to learn from you.
But we will not deny
who we are just to win.
These are our customs.
These are our ways.
Your ways are shit.
You're failing.
It's torture
coaching this team.
Thomas, we were
under the impression
that you wanted to be here.
But if that is
the wrong impression
that we are under,
then you are free to go.
Seek your happiness.
Unhappiness is a curse
that I would not wish
on anyone.
Okay. I quit.
I told you guys.
Hello?
- Can you hear me?
- Yeah.
So, uh, here's the news.
Fresh off the press. I quit.
You can't quit.
I quit.
Today, officially.
Well, then go un-quit.
Once you quit,
you got to commit
to the quit.
You know this.
It's like this team,
they don't even
want to win.
For them, it's like
some sort of game.
It is a game, Thomas.
It's a sport.
I can't work
with these guys.
I can't help them.
Thomas, we didn't
send you there
to help them.
We sent you there
to help you.
I don't need help.
I'm coming home.
Home, I'm sorry, Thomas,
but where is home now?
Look,
we'll be there
in a couple weeks
for the qualifiers, okay?
And we'll get a drink.
All right?
Dear Lord,
if you could please
let the coach come back
wherever he is,
to help us score
that one goal.
Just one.
Not too much to ask,
I think,
given we go to church
every Sunday
and give 10 percent
of our income.
But, uh, hey!
All in your time.
Amene.
Ah, that didn't work.
Ace, looks like
you're coaching today.
Okay, just go for a run
to warm up your bodies, huh?
Okay, Dad.
I'm sorry I yelled at you.
But I was just pissed
because...
because you should
be here for this.
They asked me to lead
the team out on Saturday.
Where are you?
Hi, coach.
Hi.
I just wanted to come by
and say sorry
about body slamming you
to the ground
and choking you, and
also, just wanted to say
thank you
for keeping me on the team
so far.
Well, uh, I'd like
to apologize too
for not respecting
your name,
Jaiyah.
Here. Peace offering.
What is it?
It's from team lunch.
You keep missing out
because you get angry
and run away.
You know,
you should eat first.
And, then get angry.
Makes sense.
Will you join me?
Sure.
College is cool.
And I do some performing
when I'm not studying.
So, do you think you'll come
back to the island
once you finish
your degree?
No. There's really
not much
on the island
for young people.
The job choices
come down
to the tuna cannery
or the army.
And I don't really like
fish or guns.
So, you think you'll stay
in Hawaii then?
Hmm. Maybe.
I mean, there's not
as many fa'afafine there,
so you do get
a bit more prejudice.
So, I hear
you're married?
And you have
a daughter.
Yeah, but tell me more about
this, um, fa'afafine thing.
What do you want
to know?
I mean, what are you
down there?
Does it really matter
to you?
Well, it matters
to the officials in the game.
Okay, well,
right now I'm legal.
But I have been
taking hormones
for a while and...
Right now?
Let's just say
that eventually,
I technically
won't qualify
for the team.
Can we talk soccer?
Yes.
What am I
watching here?
Why is everyone bunched up
like old ladies
gathered at
a cake convention?
Well, how are we supposed
to know about formation?
No one taught us,
including you.
Fair point.
Look at this guy.
Just standing there
in open space
doing nothing.
Reminds me of you.
That is me.
Oh.
Well, you're
a natural born defender.
Not a forward.
Wait, who is that
in goal?
That's Nicky Salapu.
That's Nicky Salapu?
Yeah.
The guy that let in
over 30 goals?
Yeah, but he saved
another 60.
He looks pretty good.
He's one of the best players
we've ever had.
He's a legend.
A legend of the fallen.
Shut up.
You shut up,
it's my house.
It's my island.
I don't even know
why we're watching this.
Because most of
these players
are retired.
But they only gave up
because everyone else
gave up on them.
But if you came back
to coach us,
I could help you
find them.
Because they're
still good.
I'll be the judge of that.
Hey, famous guy
and Jaiyah!
Thomas Rongen.
Nicky Salapu.
Well I'll be
a son of a bitch.
The chickens
have come home
to roast.
You're the best goalkeeper
American Samoa ever had.
I let in over 30 goals
at international level.
You're the best goalkeeper
American Samoa ever had.
Isn't there something
about that defeat
that still haunts you?
That you can't let go of?
Of course.
I replay that match
on Xbox.
American Samoa
versus Australia.
But I play alone.
And I get my revenge every day
by beating them 32, nil.
Don't you want revenge
on Australia?
But instead of Australia,
it would be on a bunch
of other Polynesian islands.
Some of them are close
to Australia.
How did you get
this coaching job?
You're terrible
at this.
Can you just come back
to the team?
They need work, yeah.
And they need a lot of work,
but I see a bunch of guys
in that team, including her
who all work multiple jobs
just to play.
Who've got more heart
and they're dreaming bigger
than nearly any
of the jaded fools
that mess around
in the pro league
for money
they don't deserve.
Don't tell them I said that.
Is he interested
in playing?
No interest,
whatsoever.
Who's next?
That's called chutzpah,
Armani.
And we like it.
Excuse me, Squire?
Stretch the muscle.
Ace?
Mr. Rongen! I thought
you'd abandoned us.
Ace, I'd like to apologize.
Oh.
But I won't.
As a rule,
I don't apologize.
I'm not apologizing
for that, either.
So, sorry.
Daru? Daru, Daru.
Look, I know
you don't like me.
I don't like me.
But we need
to work together.
This formation is known
as the Sad Snowman.
This player, interchangeable
with this player.
This can cross here,
switch it around,
works this way too.
So, who we got next?
We got another one.
Nice one, Armani.
Wax on, wax off.
We've also got
the three pigs.
The wolf is coming
all the way back here.
He's going to blow
your house down.
This is where we want to go.
All roads
lead to Rome.
What is this shit?
Fucking Sharpie.
Get me another board.
Think of it
like a fish.
On its own, slimy, smelly,
tasteless somewhat.
But add some coconut cream,
lemon zest, chili,
let that sucker
marinate.
Now you've got
something special.
Allow yourself
to marinate.
You'll be a better fish
for it.
Thank you, coach.
Ice is your friend.
It will help
those muscles.
Oh, got you
in the nads there.
Just another 25 minutes.
Three, four.
And then, other side.
Way off! Miss.
He finds it.
Get up.
Not at the top yet.
Keep going.
I know it's hard,
but if we can do this
as a team,
we have a chance.
We've got defense sorted.
But our midfield...
Mm-hmm.
All right, my man.
All right.
There you go.
Thank you, coach.
See you Monday?
For sure.
I won't let
you down, coach.
Amazing.
Excellent.
So, who's next?
Nice. Nice, Daru. Good energy.
Good energy.
Good, good, good.
Hop, hop, hop.
Bunny rabbit.
Push, push, push.
Good.
Control that back line.
That's it, Jaiyah, leadership.
That's what I'm talking about.
Pele, Maradona, Rongen.
Whoo!
Wax on, wax off.
Look, right here.
Maldini.
Keep it up, keep it up.
Keep going, keep going.
I know it's hard,
but keep going.
I know you can make it
to the top.
Come on, guys,
keep going, keep going.
Don't stop, don't stop.
Oh, God!
Oh, God.
It's beautiful.
You okay, coach?
Oh, my God.
It looked so easy
from the bottom.
Can't breathe.
This spot here, this place,
tells of how
your brave brothers
fought to protect
American Samoa
and the rest of the world
against evil.
Well, tomorrow, we set off
for the greatest war
of them all!
The war for World Cup
qualification.
Yeah!
Oh, my God,
the air is thin up here.
In two days' time,
we face our first enemy,
Tonga.
Screw those guys!
There have been so many wars
against those assholes.
But the war of 1825,
where they came to take...
they came to take our tuna.
But we handed their asses
to them in a giant tuna can.
Where am I?
Uh, Mr. Rongen,
are you feeling all right?
What was that?
I still have to pack.
I always leave packing
to the last minute.
It's so weird.
Healing waters.
Yeah, take him down.
Yeah. It's all right, coach.
And so,
we turn to Matthew 17
when a man says to lesu,
"Lord, have mercy on my son.
"For he is a lunatic
"and is very ill.
"For he often falls
into the fire
"and often into the water.
"Very clumsy, my boy."
And lesu said,
"Bring him here to me."
Good old lesu.
And lesu rebuked him.
And the demon came out of him.
And the boy was cured at once.
What a beautiful day.
We give thanks
for the beauties outside,
all the blessings.
And, uh, before
we get further
into the proceedings,
a little housekeeping.
Someone was seen
rifling around
in, uh, one of
the dumpsters outside
Sione Malacoco's
Fish and Chip Shop.
Fess up,
who was that?
Trying to get
some leftover scraps.
We don't do that.
Okay? Now, what a day.
Our wonderful team
are going across the seas
to do the impossible.
To go and win
a game of soccer.
Wow!
Wowie!
Some would say
that the other teams
are too big.
Well, you know
what I say to them?
Read the Bible .
Have you ever heard
of a little guy called David
fighting against a big guy
called the Goliath?
That is a cautionary tale.
Don't mess
with the little guy.
And what we have here
is a whole bunch
of little guys, don't we?
Little guys,
who probably can't do it.
Going off across the seas
to fight a whole lot
of Goliaths.
So, go, my little Davids.
Let's take it
to Mr. Goliath out there.
And let's get one
for American Samoa.
Okay.
So, off they go.
The American Samoan
soccer team
hoping not to embarrass
the nation any further.
Cut. That was really good,
Gus.
Go, go, go, go!
Tavita, let's go! Let's go!
Let's go! Come on, move it!
Let's get this bird
in the air!
Wowie, that was
some journey!
Yeah, I think I got
the jet lags.
I need a nap.
Guys, it was only
a 35 minute flight.
Hey, guys!
We've officially crossed
the date line.
It's now yesterday.
Time travel!
Look how fast
these crazies
are going.
You know,
someone's going
to get killed.
Slow down.
Heaven's full.
Yo,
some pretty sweet digs.
Okay, boys. Good,
you're settling in.
Now, I just have
one note here.
Shh.
The player reception is
at 5:30 in the PM time.
And it's compulsory feetwear.
So, wear something
on your feet, please.
Like a slippers.
Or a sandal.
Okay, yeah.
Thanks.
Tonga, Tonga.
Nice of you guys
to show up.
That's very kind.
Thank you.
It was an insult!
Oh, I should've known
you were going
to put a twist on it.
So, this is
the competition.
Nothing to worry about.
No. Things have changed.
We got a new coach.
Your coach is shit.
He's a failure.
He's just like you.
Obviously, you're trying
to get under our skin.
But American Samoan skin
is impenetrable. Okay?
Unless you got
a sharp object
like, um, scissors, um,
screwdriver, needle.
Anything that kind of
comes down to
a really sharp point.
See you at the party.
Don't forget to bring
your mascot.
"See you at the party later."
"See you
at the party later."
"See you at
the party later."
It's Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Oh, the glitz,
the glamour,
the little flowers
on the table!
Thomas,
isn't this wonderful?
Look, it's a veritable
who's that of world soccer.
Let's get out of here, T.
Hit the beach.
Six pack.
This isn't us.
We just got here.
The night's still young.
- Oh, shit.
- Hey!
There he is.
T! T!
Good day, mate.
Fancy
seeing you here.
What's happening?
Hey! Hey!
Hi. All right.
Hi.
What's going on, huh?
Angus.
Hey!
Hey, give him
a bumming.
Give him a bumming.
Oh, yeah. Bumming!
Please.
That's enough!
There you go. Right-oh.
Settle down, mate.
It's good to see you.
Tavita, this is,
uh, Angus, Keith.
Socceroos.
Oh, the Socceroos,
our arch nemesises.
Hey? What are you...?
Oh!
American Samoa.
We played in that game.
Yeah, show him
your tattoo.
Tattoo!
Show him the tattoo,
show him the tattoo.
Wait, wait.
He doesn't show
anyone this.
Let me show you
the tattoo.
Oh!
♪ 31, 31♪
♪ 31, 31, 31♪
Ah, mate,
we've moved on.
Put it away.
No, we haven't.
It's part of
our heritage.
I'm putting it away.
So, hey?
Coaching American Samoa.
Took the job
that nobody wanted.
He hasn't even been...
Right! Good on ya.
...fired yet.
Hey, no, but seriously,
how they going?
You having a few wins?
Yeah.
We're, you know,
we're...
Oi! A-Train.
- Toot toot!
- A-Train!
Hi.
Hey. Hey. Hey.
Oh. Oh.
You look good.
I missed you.
Hey, there he is.
Hey.
Alex. Hey.
You're looking
kind of tired.
Yes, I was going to say
he's looking pretty tired,
isn't he?
Jet lag.
Thank you.
Um, Tavita,
I'd like
to introduce you
to Gail, my wife.
Separated.
Oh.
And this is Alex.
Uh, my boss
and Gail's manfriend.
Mr. Alex,
on behalf of FFAS,
we just want to thank you
for sending us
this super coach.
He's really
turned things around.
Great. Hey,
can I talk to you
real quick outside?
Sure.
He wants to have a word
with you outside.
It won't take a second.
Jaiyah!
Man. I got to say,
really proud of you.
We never thought
you'd make it.
Congrats.
Thanks, Alex.
I mean, I don't know
what to say.
I'm so proud of what
we've done here.
Yeah. That's great.
Not that
it really matters
anymore.
What do you mean?
Don't worry about it.
It's just...
You have shown
real improvement
and that's what matters.
I'm going to find you
a real job after this.
Alex,
what are you saying?
Look, Thomas,
I once had this dog.
I know about the dog.
No, this is
a different dog.
You don't know this dog.
This dog was, uh,
this dog was
never any good.
He was slow
and he couldn't run,
and he never
caught a stick
or did anything
and so,
the kindest thing to do
was to put him down.
So, we killed him.
Shot him.
The team is the dog?
Yeah, of course,
the team is the dog.
It's a metaphor.
How many dogs
do you think
I've killed?
Look, the herd
is only as fast
as its slowest animal.
That's like
circle-of-life shit.
Well, I believe
we can score a goal.
A goal?
Who gives a shit
about a goal?
What if we win
the match?
Come on.
I don't think
they have a word
in their language for win.
Look, man. Soccer is
not in their DNA.
They're weak.
No, Alex.
They are not weak.
Some of the sacrifices
these players have made,
I mean, I'm talking about
life-altering sacrifices.
Look, I wish there was
something I could say
that would magically
make you feel better
about this. Oh...
Hakuna matata.
The biggest battle
of our professional lives
all comes down to today.
Now, either
we heal as a team
or we're going to crumble...
...inch by inch, play by play,
till we're finished.
We're in hell right now.
We can stay here,
get the shit
kicked out of us...
Hi.
Hey.
Nightcap?
Sure.
Let's go.
We can fight
our way back...
Oh, right.
...into the light.
We can climb out of hell...
You know,
I think island life
has had a real effect on me.
I feel like a new man.
Kind of Zen.
You seem the same.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Are you happy?
I feel terrific.
Tomorrow, we're going
to lose the match.
Oh, come on.
And get kicked out
of International Football.
You don't really think that.
Pretty much the end
of my career.
You're the best.
I'm a laughingstock.
You're a real buzzkill.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
This is fun.
I miss you.
I miss you too.
I love you.
You define love
as wanting
to be wanted.
You just don't want
to be alone.
Yeah? That's
the definition of love.
I'll always have
a broken heart,
but I'm moving.
Trying to move on.
It's been two years
and I don't think
you're even
talking about it.
What's there
to talk about?
All right,
let's not talk then.
Come on, old man.
Oh, God.
Are we doing this?
Really?
Come on.
Okay.
I bet
you can't get it.
Well, you're supposed
to put it on the ground.
It's called football.
Hey!
Don't tell me what to do.
You have
a very fascinating
family dynamic, Thomas.
You know,
I saw this German film.
And they seemed to have
a similar arrangement.
You know, there was
this one woman
and all these guys.
I couldn't figure out
which one was married
to her
because they were
all acting like they were
- married to her.
- Lovely jogging.
Best one
I've seen yet.
Hey, it's Nicky!
Oh, Christmas
has come early.
It's Nicky Salapu!
Nicky Salapu!
Nicky!
Where did he come from?
Nicky Salapu.
Okay, okay.
Yes!
Guys, come on,
come on. Leave him alone.
- Let's go, let's go.
- Come on,
do your stretching.
Let's get
some breakfast,
and, uh, hydrate.
That way.
In that order.
You made it.
I guess, uh, my speech
actually had some effect?
Well, no.
Actually, I did some
research on you,
and it
turns out you're
a bigger loser
than I am.
Yeah, I mean, you've failed
so many times or been fired.
It actually makes me feel
better about being
the worst goalkeeper
in the world.
Oh.
American Samoa,
in a few hours we will see you
on the field with Tonga!
- Tonga!
Tonga, in a few hours,
you meet American Samoa
on the field.
Also.
Tonga! Move it out!
All right, guys.
They're scared.
Welcome
to today's World Cup
qualifying match between Tonga
and American Samoa.
Thank you.
Here's your seat, darling.
Here's your seat.
Hi, fellas.
Alligator!
How are ya?
Don't know what
to say, really.
A few minutes
to the biggest battle
of our professional lives.
All comes down
to today.
Now, either we heal
as a team.
Or we're going
to crumble,
inch by inch,
play by play,
till we're finished.
Hang on.
That's the Any Given
Sunday speech.
No, Daru.
So, I'd like you to see
this space as a safe space
where you can share
your stories,
your thoughts,
hopes and dreams.
So, please. Anyone.
Hey, what's up,
everybody?
It's me, Smiley.
Hey, Smiley.
Um, it's funny you guys
call me Smiley.
I don't really
smile much
outside of
this place.
As some of you
may know,
I had a pretty rough year
this past year
after both my parents
got arrested for...
Let's go, guys,
time to play.
Another time,
Smiley.
Okay, guys, we've done
the hard work.
Let's do this!
Wait a minute,
whoa, whoa, whoa!
Where's Jaiyah?
Jaiyah, where is she?
Jaiyah! What's going on?
Go away, coach.
- What's wrong?
- I just...
You know what?
Pregame nerves.
Totally normal.
Everybody gets them.
Hey, hey, hey,
come on, come on.
Oi, hey, hey.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
What is it?
Hey, talk to me.
I went off my hormones.
I went off my hormones
so I could perform better.
For you and for the boys.
And now I don't feel
like myself.
I feel ugly.
And everyone
knows it. And...
I feel crazy.
And I can't do this,
coach, I can't.
Hey, hey?
Look at me.
Keep your head up,
keep your head up.
Come on,
Be proud.
You inspire
those players in there.
I can't inspire them.
I need your help.
They're not going
to follow me.
But they will follow you.
Will you do me a favor,
and lead them out
onto the pitch?
Yeah?
Come on. Up you get.
Let's get you ready.
Okay, right. Let's fix
your hair, here.
Yeah. That's nice.
Yeah,
that looks terrible.
It's kind of nice.
It's the way
I used to do
my daughter's hair.
She liked it.
Well, she was
probably lying to you.
Very possible.
You okay?
I'm okay.
Okay.
I'll see you
out there.
American Samoa!
Hey, boss. I got these
made up for us.
For you and me.
The two Miyagis.
Yeah. Two Miyagis.
Shh, shh, shh!
Hey, hey, hey.
It's starting,
it's starting. Shh.
I'm embarrassed
already.
Let's go, boys.
Excellent.
Yes, Jaiyah.
Open it, give him
some space.
Go, Jonah!
Hit it!
- Go, Jonah!
- Kick it!
This close.
It was this close.
Here we go again.
Watch, watch, watch.
I got him! I got him!
Go, Daru!
Daru,
stay on your feet!
Stay on your feet!
- Hold that back line.
- Yeah.
Squeeze him, Jaiyah!
Don't let him roll you.
Come out, Nicky!
Come on, Nicky,
you can do it!
Good, good.
That's it.
Jaiyah! Don't let him
roll you like that.
It's okay.
Guys, guys! Go, go, go!
Pass it off! Pass it off!
Find the player.
Come on, Samson.
- Samson!
- Hunt him down.
First try, Jonah.
First try!
Not your day,
mate.
Shut up!
Don't get fired,
mate.
Get back, back, back!
Back!
Come on, come on,
come on.
Beat him to it.
Daru, what was that?
Sorry. I'm sorry.
- Come on!
- Bring it in!
Bring it in. Come on.
Rambo, switch with Vegas.
Daru, be careful.
Nicole,
I need you to...
Nicole?
Jaiyah, I need you
to control
that back line.
You have
to communicate!
Now, I made you captain.
Now own it. Let's go!
Okay, coach.
Come on, team!
Let's go, team!
Keep going.
Go. Pass, pass.
Pass.
Pass it. Support him.
What the...
Coach.
Okay.
Shit!
Jaiyah,
hold that back line!
Where are you going?
Ah! Shit.
Let's go, Rambo.
Come on.
- Goal!
- No!
Oh, shit! Fuck!
And that's halftime.
Tonga takes a one nil lead
into the half.
Shut up!
Sit down!
What the hell is
going on out there?
What about all the training?
This is bullshit.
I would've killed
to play international soccer.
But you losers don't seem
to give two shits.
You're losers!
I'm sorry, coach.
We're just
not feeling it.
"Sorry, coach.
I'm just not feeling it."
What does that mean,
"not feeling it"?
Nothing!
It does mean something,
Thomas.
Feeling is
very important
to us.
It's not that
we've forgotten
what you have taught us.
It's... it's just that
we've taken
too much to heart.
It's too tense.
We keep thinking
we might win.
We've never fought
like that before.
Well, don't worry.
Because that's
not gonna happen
the way you're playing.
Trust me.
Yeah. Ah, Samson says
the guys are really
stressed out.
And stress
is a silent killer.
It's like when
the Predator...
- Really?
- Yeah.
Great. Perfect.
I give up.
Sick of this shit.
Good luck.
Mr. Rongen?
Mr. Rongen.
What? What do you want
from me, Tavita?
Look, I like you.
But I'm done.
I got to get off
this island.
And you're not going
to change my mind
with any stories
of marinated fish.
I'm not here to talk
about marinated fish.
But I want you
to be happy.
I'm not happy.
I'm not a happy person.
And I hate
to break it to you,
but you're not going
to get your "one goal."
That's all right.
I'm kind of used to that
by now, Mr. Rongen.
It's not my fault, man.
I tried.
I know, I know.
They don't listen to me.
I know.
It's over!
They're shutting you down.
Oh. That I did not know.
That will be
why Mr. Alex is here.
Oh, well.
On the bright side,
I got to go
on a tropical island getaway.
Take in the sights
with my friend, Thomas.
What is it with you?
Why are you always
so positive?
It's sickening.
You should coach them.
They believe in you.
But you have to show them
who you are.
They don't know you.
You don't talk to them.
Ever since you got
to our island,
you've been
somewhere else.
Even now,
you're somewhere else.
Maybe it's in the past,
because you thought
you were happier then.
But I think you could
be happy here, now.
But you actually have
to be here, now.
I can't win.
Then lose.
But don't lose alone.
Lose with us.
And there's always
the second half.
That's another chance.
Second halves
everywhere.
Right.
Get rid of it.
This is all nonsense.
Mmm. Okay.
Shouldn't have, uh,
called you losers.
Um, it's not true.
You're not.
I'm the loser.
So,
two years ago,
I lost my daughter
in a car accident.
Her name was Nicole.
And that's her hat.
She was the greatest,
you know.
She was, um,
bright and funny,
and, uh,
she loved soccer.
She loved it.
We used to sit up
and talk about the game.
Most nights.
And then, uh,
one day, she was
on her way to practice
and she lost control
and crashed.
That was it.
She was gone.
I lost my baby.
Sorry. Okay.
I guess, I got pretty angry
at the world
but mainly, I was angry
at myself. Maybe...
if I took her to practice,
she'd still be here.
Maybe if I was there
for her a bit more.
A lot of maybes.
Why'd I take this job?
For the challenge? No.
I couldn't give two shits
about turning
this team around.
I was, uh, forced
to take it.
It was the only job
I could get.
And I didn't want it, guys.
You know, I thought
I was better than you.
And fact of the matter is,
you don't need me at all.
You're already perfect.
So basically, my advice
to you would be,
"Don't listen to me."
Go out there
and do what you do.
Or don't do it.
Whatever. You know?
You've reminded me
that I've always loved playing
more than winning.
So, enjoy this match.
I mean, life's short.
Football's a game.
I just want you all
to be happy.
But we want
to win, coach.
Then be happy.
Coach, nice pep talk.
Hey, Chief, got any
spare chicken, there?
No pressure.
Enjoy yourselves.
It's just a game.
Life is good.
Yes, Jaiyah. Yeah.
Oh, good kicking!
Push up, push up, push up.
Look for it.
Goal!
Yeah!
We scored a goal!
We actually
scored a goal!
That's my boy!
This is the first goal ever
for American Samoa.
Let's go,
Samoa!
My baby!
Rambo did it, you guys.
What a match!
Wow!
Whoa, no, no, no.
Whoa. Somebody!
Darling! Darling!
Oh, no!
Help!
Somebody.
I need
medical assistance
over in section...
Hey, Ma. Dad.
Dad. Wake up.
Dad, it's me. Dad?
- No, no, no. Okay, okay.
- Hey, hey.
Calm down. Calm down.
What happened?
They said I suffered
a massive stroke.
Heat stroke.
Yeah, a massive heat stroke.
It was awful, son.
Scary for
everyone involved.
But in time,
maybe even an hour,
I think I'll be up
on my feet again.
Okay, you're going
to be okay.
How much did we lose by?
10-one?
What was the final score?
Calm down, Dad. Okay?
Breathe in. Out.
I'm ready, I'm ready, okay?
Yeah. Yeah, okay.
Calm down.
Tell me what happened.
Calm down. You calm?
Okay. Yeah. Go.
Now I'm going to tell you
what happened.
Tell me what happened.
All right.
Possession kept going
back and forth.
And things were tense.
Because we knew
the whole country
was watching.
And that people would talk
about this day
for years to come.
And then Tonga broke
with the ball.
I got him!
It was a one-on-one
between me and Alishe
and I thought
I could take the ball.
But if I dived in and missed,
there was going
to be a certain goal.
But it was different.
I felt different.
I stood up
and I tackled him.
Suddenly, we're on the attack.
I played the ball up to Vegas.
He saw the keeper
out of position and
he shot with
his almighty power.
But the keeper
saved and scrambled it
behind for a corner.
Yes! This is it,
this is it.
Jaiyah!
Get up.
In the box
there was
a lot of tussling,
and things were
getting serious.
Deph took the corner.
It was a right-footed
in-swinger.
It looked like Tonga
would clear.
But then...
Jaiyah.
Goal.
Yeah!
That's what
I'm talking about, boy.
Goal!
And another historic goal!
Unbelievable!
American Samoa...
Yes!
...the last-ranked team
in the world,
might actually win this thing!
We scored?
Yeah.
A goal? An actual goal?
Yeah. Mm-hmm.
Another one?
Okay.
Did you hear that? Two!
Everything was going great.
With only 30 seconds left
on the clock.
We were winning.
But then the referee
decided to add
five minutes
to the game.
What a disgrace.
Yeah.
Then what happened?
The match
was almost over.
We were holding up
under the pressure.
Got it!
Stop, thief!
You can only get away
with one of those a game.
The ball was passed wide
and the Tonga winger
sent over a great cross.
Nicky was catching these
all day,
but under the pressure...
...he fumbled it.
It hit his hand and it was
rolling towards the goal.
- Oh, shit.
- Then,
out of nowhere
came Jaiyah.
She slid in at the last minute
and hooked
the ball off the line,
saving a certain goal.
Yes, Jaiyah! Yes!
But then,
the ball fell to Alishe
and he wasn't going to miss.
I didn't have any option.
As he drew back to shoot,
I dived in.
Clear penalty.
It was my fault.
Hit him, darling.
You idiot!
Then what happened?
Nicky Salapu had to face
the penalty by himself.
- Oh, Jesus, it gets worse.
- Oh, God.
"I had been
catching these
all day.
"It was my time."
Everything was
on the line.
Oh, the pressure!
Yeah. He was
under pressure.
Oh, pressure.
Absolutely.
Pressure.
Oh! Pressure cooker.
- Come on, Nicky.
- Go, Nicky.
- Let's go, Nicky!
- Let's go!
- Let's go, Nicky.
- Don't tell me
Nicky Salapu had
a meltdown in goal?
The horror of those
31 goals against
Australia 10 years ago
came back and haunted him.
I suppose he lost
his composure
and just stepped aside
and let the ball go in.
Damn everyone watching!
Is that what happened?
He probably was
freaking out a bit.
"But I wasn't
freaking out."
Nicky wasn't freaking out
because he knew
he had the history
of a thousand chiefs
holding him up.
But he just had to
let go of everything.
"The past."
The present.
"The future.
"But I had
to let it go.
" All of it."
He just had
to become Nicky.
I'm Nicky Salapu.
Say it.
The whistle blew.
For a second, we didn't know
what was going on.
We never felt
like this before.
Until we'd realized...
With a final score
of two-to-one,
American Samoa...
We win! We won!
We won! We won!
Yeah!
American Samoa wins its
first match ever!
We did this!
All right!
We won?
We won. You won
a game, Dad.
What?
Yes, Jesus, we won!
Oh, we won!
Yes!
I always knew it.
Oh, son, I knew
you could do it.
Oh, my heart, my heart!
Okay.
One goal! One goal!
Last saved message.
Okay, seriously,
get Mom to show you
how to check your messages.
Although, I guess
if you're hearing this,
you've figured it out.
Anyway, to answer
your question,
school is good.
It's great, actually.
I genuinely like
all my classes.
Intro to Psych is really cool,
and so is Anthro.
That professor is
just awesome.
And everyone's happy
to be here.
I've met so many new people.
And there's just
so much to talk about.
I mean, it's like
anything's possible, you know?
I don't know.
I guess I'm just saying
there's more to life
than soccer.
Okay. Love you.
Dear Lord.
What more can I say?
Nothing, really.
I had a dream
and it came true.
We scored a goal.
And then we scored
another goal.
And then we won a game!
And then, we lost
the next game.
And we didn't qualify
for the World Cup.
But you know what, Lord?
Despite that loss,
I'm happy.
So, thank you
for sending us
Mr. Rongen.
We've become
quite attached to him.
It's like finding
a little lost white kid
at the mall
and telling him
which way to go.
Thank you, Lord.
Amen.
Dear Lord.
I'm praying as a weird way
of letting the team know that
I've been offered a job
with MLS side, LA Galaxy
starting immediately.
But as of today,
I've decided not to take
the job. Amen.
- Amen.
- Wow, Lord, that is
a huge gesture
and a real credit to us
as a team.
Uh, well, Lord,
the thing is
I'm still leaving.
But not for football,
Lord.
I want some time
for me.
Uh, you know,
so I can remind myself
that there's other
more important things
to life than this game.
Amen.
- Amen.
- Dear Lord.
Way to get
our hopes up, jeez!
It's a real
rollercoaster ride,
this one.
Oh, well, in that case,
please tell Mr. Rongen
that we love him
very much.
And that he will always
have a home here
in American Samoa.
Amen.
Do you want
to get your asses kicked
by Tonga?
Go! Pressure! Fighter!
Ay-ay-ay, Daru.
Yes, yes.
Good job.
Come on, Jaiyah, go!
Push, push, push, push!
Just want to say,
I love you guys.
No matter how different I am.
And how different we all are.
And so ends
our tale of woe.
I guess
it just goes to show,
no matter
what happens to you,
when the going gets rough,
when the chips are down,
when you feel like
you can't carry on,
when you feel
like there's no hope
or you just can't do it,
anything can happen
and a whole lot
of miracles
when you just have
a little bit of faith.
Ah, shit!